Alright, now we're gonna do
the whole password reset flow.
And the way that's gonna work is
we're gonna have a forum here
where you put in your email address
and it's gonna send you an email with a token
that is good for one hour.
And then, when you click on that URL and supply that token,
then it will be able to reset the user's password.
Now, there's a bit of an issue that we have here is that,
we've just been using the regular user
that's been imported from the generated prisma.graphql.
So, if we go to prisma.graphql
and we look at the type user.
You'll see that we have the ID, the name, the email,
but we also have the password, the reset token
and the reset token expiry, and that's not necessarily
something that you want available on the front end.
Especially this password reset token.
Because, what could happen if this field is available
to the client side,
is that someone could reset the password,
they could modify the query to also ask for the token
to come back and then all of a sudden
you could just reset the password from this forum
and get the token.
And then, go ahead and reset this person's password.
So, this is where we get into like sort of like
back end only fields where they should never ever
be available, on the front end.
And the way that we do that.
(can hitting floor)
Dropped my can.
The way that we do that is we're going to be
redefining this user type in our front end,
which is our, or sorry,
we're gonna be redefining it in our yoga
so that we never actually leak any of those
sensitive fields over.
So, let's go down here
and we're just gonna say type User.
And we sort of need to redefine all of these.
You can just kind of copy this, here.
You can paste it over here.
You get rid of the implements node
'cause we don't have that concept on the yoga server.
So we go through it.
ID, yes.
Name, yes.
Email, yes.
Password, no.
Reset token, no.
Expiry, no.
And permissions, yes, of course.
And we don't need to redefine permission
because it will, if we don't define
what the permission enom is,
it's just gonna import it from this that we have right here.
So, that's really, really important.
Make sure you don't skip that piece
because that could be a potential security issue
in the application that you're building.
Now that we have that,
let's go into our schema actually
we're already here.
And lets make another mutation,
and that's called requestReset.
That is going to take in an email
which is a string.
And it is required.
And from that lets also just return a SuccessMessage.
Oh, I forgot the colon here.
Good, now we're gonna go in to our mutations.
And again, hopefully you get the whole point of this
lets just duplicate the signout one.
We'll call it requestReset.
Parent, args, ctx, info.
And then inside of here we're gonna be doing
a whole bunch of work, so lets get into it.
First thing we do is check if this is a real user.
Then two, we're going to set a reset token
and a expiry on that user.
And then three, we're going to email them that reset token.
So we're going to do the first two parts here.
And then we're going to come back and actually
set up it to send email with our application.
First thing, wanna do, is check if there is a user
so const user = await.
Since we're using await here we need to an async function.
Ctx.db.query.user.
Where the email is equal to the args.email.
Good.
Then we'll say if there is no user
throw new error.
No user, and we can probably just take this
from this one right here.
No user user with the email.
Email, and in this case I didn't destructure it.
Args.email.
Good, well if they got this far that means
there is a user so we're going to set
and generate a reset token.
So, now the token needs to be something
that is both random and unique,
as well as something that is cryptographically strong,
because you don't want somebody being able to figure out
how you've generated these tokens, and just trying them.
So, what we're gonna be using is a built in module to node.
It's called crypto.
So, we'll go up to the top we'll say const.
And the function on crypto is called randomBytes.
Sounds like my dinner last night.
Right? Am I right?
(laughing)
Byte, B-Y, how do you spell bytes, there we go.
Const randomBytes equals require crypto.
That's a built in module to node.
We also wanna grab the promisify utility,
because this randomBytes right here
you can run it synchronously,
but it's best to always run your modules asynchronously.
And the way the randomBytes works is via callback function.
At the time of recording, we wanna turn that
into a promised based function.
So, const promisify...
Equals require util.
So, in Node there is a util library
that has this promisify and what that will do
is it will take callback based functions,
and turn them into promised based functions.
So, we'll go back down to our reset flow down here,
reset token.
And, we'll make a token const resetToken is equal to,
and normally what we'd do is, is we'd just say,
randomBytes, and when we ask for 20 dot toString hex.
So, what this is gonna do,
is you call random bytes, you give it a length
of how long you wish it to be.
And then, you convert it from, this returns a buffer
and return the buffer into hex,
which is, and again, they give us a string.
However this is synchronous at the moment,
so what we can do is, we can, await promisify randomBytes
and then call toString on the end there.
And that will call it a asynchronously.
Then we also need an expiry,
so how long is this token good for,
and I'm gonna do it for one hour in this application.
So, const resetTokenExpiry...
is equal to now plus 3,600,000.
And that is is one hour from now.
Then we wanna take these variables that we just made
and save them to the user.
So, we will capture that const response is equal to
ctx.db.mutation.updateUser.
So, we wanna update a specific user.
And, we'll say where the email is equal to the args.email.
And, the data that we wanna update on that user
is the resetToken, which is equal to the resetToken.
And, the resetTokenExpiry...
Which is equal to the resetTokenExpiry.
And, of course, you don't need to double up on these
'cause of ES6, so we can simply just pass
the two values that we want.
So, we're generating these random things
and then we are bringing them in.
A little bit of a syntax issue here,
lets debug that real quick.
Missing one parenthesis there.
Good, we have this response.
Lets just console log the response
to see what we are dealing with.
Okay, so lets, we don't have any sort of interface
to actually work with this,
so lets open up our playground real quick.
Localhost four four, four four four four.
Lets make a new one mutation reset...
requestReset, I always get confused between reset
and requestReset.
And then we will say requestReset
the email is equal to wesbos@gmail.com.
And return form that, I'm just gonna ask for the message
and that's one thing we forgot to do here
is lets just a message, thanks.
And, now lets go, make sure your
back end is open here.
And, clear it out with any errors.
And go ahead an run it.
Get an error here, the original argument
must be a type of function.
So, I see what the issue is.
This randomBytes, that's not how you promisify it
you promisify it like that.
And then take one of these parenthesis off there.
Because we wanna make, what we could also do is right here
is say const randomBytesPromiseified
is equal to promisify randomBytes.
And then we have a new function called that
and then we can simply just await.
Alright, lets clear this all out.
I bet that will work, that's a little bit cleaner.
Let's try it once more.
It says thanks, good, now lets go back to our terminal here.
We get a promise, which is pending,
that's because we want to await this.
Otherwise the response is not going to be a response
it's just going to be a promise.
So lets try that again.
Good, there we go, so this is the user
and this is the user, with the, you see the password,
you see the resetToken, and you see the resetTokenExpiry.
This is the token that we want to work with
and what you can also do is open up your Prisma,
just so we can pull that value out,
because we're gonna like, sorta pause this request reset.
Code up the actual reset portion of this
and then we're gonna come back
and work on sending email.
So, just open app.prisma.io.
Go to your users.
And find the one that has a reset token.
Have that handy, and lets get into actually resetting it.
So, we'll do the sorta same song and dance,
we'll go back to our schema.
And, add in a resetPassword mutation
that takes in the resetToken, which is a string.
And is required.
It takes in their new password.
Which is a string and required.
And then also we're gonna ask for a confirmPassword.
Which is a string, and is required
so that we can double check, you can also check
if the password is the same on the client side
you can do it on either end.
And from that lets just return a user.
Which is required.
We'll go into our mutation and code that up.
Async.
ResetPassword.
Parent, args, ctx, info.
Now, what do we need to do here?
First check if the passwords match.
Two, check if it's a legit reset token.
Three, check if it's not expired, or check if it's expired.
Four, hash their new password.
Five, save the new password to the user
and remove old resetToken fields.
Six.
Generate JWT.
Seven, set the JWT cookie.
Eight, return the new user.
And nine, HHEWHEWHW have a beer, 'cause that is a lot.
Okay, so, this is all a pseudo code
of things that we need to do.
This might be another nice one, everything we've done here.
We've done previously before,
so if you wanna try this yourselves
feel free to pause it, otherwise
lets go ahead and do it together.
First, check if the passwords match, this one's easy.
So, if args.password doesn't equal args.confirmPassword
throw new error yo passwords don't match.
Good.
Two, check if it's legit and check if it's expired.
We're gonna do these in one query
so we don't have to hit the database twice.
And, I'll show you how we can do that.
So, we are going to say const the user
is equal to ctx.db.query. Normally we would do .user,
and we would await that.
But the problem here, is that,
lets actually open up our Prisma,
and look for our query user.
It takes a UserWhereUniqueInput, right,
so what are the fields that we can pass
we can only pass in ID or an email
for where the user is unique,
and the only reason those two ones are
is because when we open up our data model.
We've only marked the ID and the email as unique.
So, we could go ahead and add unique to these.
However, sometimes, the reason why
I didn't do those as unique is I wanna show you how
you can query based on fields that are not unique,
and you're just expecting the first item to come back.
And the way that we can do that,
is we can use the users query,
where it will return an array,
and then we can just destructure the first returned item
into a variable called user.
And that gives us the ability to,
well lets take a look at the queries.
We can search based on users
where is UserWhereInput is the input.
And, that gives us the availability
to do all of these things.
Where you can do multiple inputs.
You can do things like greater or equal to.
We have all of this available to us,
which is much more robust,
then the two little inputs that we had.
Specifically the greater than value
is exactly what we need here.
So, we say, grab the first user
where we search for users.
And we can say where the resetToken
is equal to the args.resetToken
and the resetTokenExpiry
is greater or equal to
gte,
right now
minus
3,600,000.
And what that's gonna do, is it's going to first look
for somebody with that token, but it's also going to check
that that token is still within that one hour time limit.
Otherwise, if it does match the token,
but it doesn't match this one,
it's not going to return anything,
and we gonna be able to tell the user
that something went wrong.
So, here we'll that if there is no user,
again, we're gonna throw a new error.
This token is either invalid or expired.
So, there we go, we're checking for those
otherwise we're going to hash their new password.
So, const password
is equal to await bcrypt.hash
args.password, so their new password.
We'll use 10 there again.
And then we need to save the new password
and remove the old field.
So lets say const updatedUser
is equal to await
ctx.db.mutation
.updateUser
where,
and here you can use either the email
from the found user right here,
or you can use the reset token to identify them.
I'll use email here.
Where the email is equal to user.email
and the data that we wanna update is
we wanna update the password to be the password.
And, hopefully you get it by now, you can just do that.
An, then we also want to set the resetToken
to be null.
And the resetTokenExpiry to be null as well.
Six, generate the JWT.
So, const the token is equal to jwt.sign
userId
is equal to the updatedUser.id.
So, the new user that we just queried right here.
Then we also have to pass the process.env.APP_SECRET.
Set the JWT cookie.
Ctx.response
cookie.
Cook-yuh, that's how the Dutch say it.
This is probably a good time to
put this in a variable so you don't
have to run that every single time.
So, we've set the response.
Return the new user, finally return updatedUser.
Whoo, that was a lot of work,
but it looks like everything should work.
Obviously this is a joke, we can remove that.
So, what we're gonna do is, now
that we have this reset token,
and assuming that this video didn't
take you more than an hour.
Now, we're going to take this token,
go back to our playground here.
I'm gonna make a new tab here.
Mutation reset.
I'm gonna say reset...
It doesn't look like our, I gotta refresh this arrow here
'cause our method is not pulling up.
Now does it show us, reset, there we go, resetPassword.
It takes in a token, which I'm gonna paste in there.
Then it's going to take in a password,
which I'm going to reset to dog.
And then I confirmPasword, which I'm going to set to
D-O double g.
So, lets see if it throws that error for us.
And then back from that lets just get
the ID and the name of the person.
Here we go, run.
Your passwords don't match, good.
So that means our error handling is working.
Now lets just actually pass it, run it.
Boom.
Now it looks like our password has been updated.
So, I'm gonna go to my application here
and try to sign in with wesbos@gmail.com,
and my new password is just dog.
Sign in, bam.
It looks like it's all working.
And then if I were to run this again,
this resetToken should not work.
So, run, this token is either invalid or expired, good,
because we invalidated that token
after we reset it here, and now we have it.
So, that's all of the back end part of it,
but now we need to be able to write the front end
which is the react side,
so lets jump into the next video for that.